# terraform-provider-env0

Terraform provider to interact with env0

Available in the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/env0/env0/latest)

The full list of supported resources is available [here](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/env0/env0/latest/docs).

## Example usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    env0 = {
      source = "env0/env0"
      version = "~> 0.0.13"
    }
  }
}

provider "env0" {}

data "env0_project" "default_project" {
  name = "Default Organization Project"
}

resource "env0_template" "example" {
  name        = "example"
  description = "Example template"
  repository  = "https://github.com/env0/templates"
  path        = "aws/hello-world"
}

resource "env0_configuration_variable" "in_a_template" {
  name        = "VARIABLE_NAME"
  value       = "some value"
  template_id = env0_template.tested1.id
}
```

## Authentication

First, generate an `api_key` and `api_secret` from the organization settings page.
See [here](https://developer.env0.com/docs/api/YXBpOjY4Njc2-env0-api#creating-an-api-key).

These can be provided by one of two methods. First method consists of setting `ENV0_API_KEY` and `ENV0_API_SECRET` environment variables, and just declaring the provider with no parameters:

```terraform
provider "env0" {}
```

The second method would be to specify these fields as parameters to the provider:

```terraform
variable "env0_api_key" {}
variable "env0_api_secret" {}

provider "env0" {
  api_key = var.env0_api_key
  api_secret = var.env0_api_secret
}
```

## Dev setup

**make sure you run with go version 1.16**
### Build 
- Use the `./build.sh` script.
- The output binary is called `terraform-provider-env0`

### Run local version of the provider
- Build - `./build.sh`
- Create the plugins folder - `mkdir -p ~/.terraform.d/plugins/terraform.env0.com/local/env0/6.6.6/darwin_amd64`
- Copy the built binary - `cp ./terraform-provider-env0 ~/.terraform.d/plugins/terraform.env0.com/local/env0/6.6.6/darwin_amd64` (Replace `darwin` with `linux` on Linux)
- Require the local provider in your `main.tf` - 
```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    env0 = {
      version = "6.6.6"
      source  = "terraform.env0.com/local/env0"
    }
  }
}
```

## Testing

### Integration tests
- The integration tests run against the real env0 API 
- Have `ENV0_API_KEY` and `ENV0_API_SECRET` environment variables defined.
- Also set `ENV0_API_ENDPOINT` if you want to run against a non-prod environment.
- Run `go run tests/harness.go` (from the project root folder) to run all the tests.
- Use `go run tests/harness.go 003_configuration_variable` to run a specific test.

Each test perform the following steps:
- `terraform init`
- `terraform apply -auto-approve -var second_run=0`
- `terraform apply -auto-approve -var second_run=1`
- `terraform outputs -json` - and verifies expected outputs from `expected_outputs.json`
- `terraform destroy`

The harness has two modes to help while developing: If an environment variable `DESTROY_MODE` exists and it's value is `NO_DESTROY`, the harness will avoid calling `terraform destroy`, allowing the developer to inspect the resources created, through the dashboard, for example.
Afterwards, when cleanup is required, just set `DESTROY_MODE` to `DESTROY_ONLY` and _only_ `terraform destroy` will run.

### Unit Testing
#### How to run tests
Run from root directory:
```shell
go test ./...
```

#### Running a single provider test
```shell
export TEST_PATTERN="TestUnitConfigurationVariableResource/Create" && go test ./env0
```

#### How to use mocks

1. Make sure `GOPATH` is in your `PATH`
```shell
go env GOPATH
echo $PATH
export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)  # if not
```
2. Install mockgen
```
go install github.com/golang/mock/mockgen@v1.6.0
```
3. Make sure to add this line in files that include the interface you'd wish to mock:
```
//go:generate mockgen -destination=<file>_mock.go -package=<package> . <interface>
```
4. Run from root directory:
```shell
go generate ./...
```

## Documentation
- Docs are generated using github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
- Run `./generate-docs.sh` to generate docs
- Must be run manually before releasing a version
- Please add an example to `examples/<resources or data-sources>/env0_<name>` dir and make sure it is added to the docs.

## Release
To release a version to the [Terraform Public Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/env0/env0/latest?pollNotifications=true) -
1. Docs must be generated manually and committed to the repo before release. (`./generate-docs.sh`)
2. Create and push a tag locally, in semver format - `git tag v0.0.9 && git push origin --tags`
3. Binaries will be automatically generated by the GitHub action defined in `.github/workflows/release.yml`, **wait till it done successfully!**
4. Goto [Github Releases](https://github.com/env0/terraform-provider-env0/releases) and edit the draft created by Release Drafter Bot - it should contain the change log for the release. Make sure it's pointing at the tag you created in the previous step and publish the release.
5. The Registry will automatically pick up on the new version. If the registry says the release doesn't have any binaries, check the result of the `release` Github action. You might need to [Resync](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/env0/env0/latest/settings?pollNotifications=true) the registry after the action finishes.
