---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "env0_project_policy Resource - terraform-provider-env0"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# env0_project_policy (Resource)



## Example Usage

```terraform
data "env0_project" "default_project" {
  name = "Default Organization Project"
}

resource "env0_project_policy" "example" {
  project_id                    = data.env0_project.default_project.id
  number_of_environments        = 1
  number_of_environments_total  = 1
  requires_approval_default     = true
  include_cost_estimation       = true
  skip_apply_when_plan_is_empty = true
  disable_destroy_environments  = true
  skip_redundant_deployments    = true
  drift_detection_cron          = "0 4 * * *"  # Run drift detection daily at 4 AM
  auto_drift_remediation        = "CODE_TO_CLOUD"  # Optional, defaults to "DISABLED"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (String) id of the project

### Optional

- `auto_drift_remediation` (String) Auto drift remediation strategy (DISABLED, CODE_TO_CLOUD, CLOUD_TO_CODE, SMART_REMEDIATION). Defaults to DISABLED
- `continuous_deployment_default` (Boolean) Redeploy on every push to the git branch default value
- `default_ttl` (String) the default environment time-to-live allowed on deploy time. Format is <number>-<M/w/d/h> (Examples: 12-h, 3-d, 1-w, 1-M). Default value is 'inherit' which inherits the organization policy. must be equal or shorter than max_ttl
- `disable_destroy_environments` (Boolean) Disallow destroying environment in the project
- `drift_detection_cron` (String) default cron expression for new environments
- `force_remote_backend` (Boolean) if 'true' all environments created in this project will be forced to use env0 remote backend. Default is 'false'
- `include_cost_estimation` (Boolean) Enable cost estimation for the project
- `max_ttl` (String) the maximum environment time-to-live allowed on deploy time. Format is <number>-<M/w/d/h> (Examples: 12-h, 3-d, 1-w, 1-M). Default value is 'inherit' which inherits the organization policy. must be equal or longer than default_ttl
- `number_of_environments` (Number) Max number of environments a single user can have in this project.
Omitting removes the restriction.
- `number_of_environments_total` (Number) Max number of environments in this project.
Omitting removes the restriction.
- `outputs_as_inputs_enabled` (Boolean) if 'true' enables 'environment outputs'. Default is 'false'
- `requires_approval_default` (Boolean) Requires approval default value when creating a new environment in the project
- `run_pull_request_plan_default` (Boolean) Run Terraform Plan on Pull Requests for new environments targeting their branch default value
- `skip_apply_when_plan_is_empty` (Boolean) Skip apply when plan has no changes
- `skip_redundant_deployments` (Boolean) Automatically skip queued deployments when a newer deployment is triggered
- `vcs_pr_comments_enabled_default` (Boolean) if 'true' all environments created in this project will be created with an 'enabled' running VCS PR plan/apply commands using PR comments. Default is 'false'

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) id of the policy
- `updated_by` (String) updated by
